README.md, before:

# cpm

cpm is a fundamental package for Computational Psychiatry. It is designed to provide a set of tools for researchers and clinicians to analyze and model data in the field of Computational Psychiatry.

:warning: The package is under active development and is therefore currently in a beta version. :warning:

## Install from GitHub

In order to install the package from GitHub, run the following command:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/DevComPsy/cpm.git
```

## Documentation

The documentation can be viewed here: [link](https://devcompsy.github.io/cpm/).

### Development of documentation

The documentation is written in docstrings and markdown files. The markdown files are located in the `docs` directory. The documentation is built using mkdocs.

### Vieweing developmental versions of the documentation

First, install all requirements:

```bash
pip install -r docs/requirements.txt
```

In the root directory, run the following commands:

```bash
mkdocs build
mkdocs serve
```

Then open a browser and go to http://127.0.0.1:8000/

Depending on the version you have, you might need to add Jupyter to PATH, see this [link](https://github.com/jupyter/nbconvert/issues/1773#issuecomment-1283852572) for more information.

### Building the documentation

To build the documentation, run the following command in the root directory:

```bash
mkdocs build
```

To deploy the documentation to GitHub pages, run the following command in the root directory:

```bash
mkdocs gh-deploy
```

# Development process

To work on the toolbox, create a new branch from the `main` branch. Then, create a pull request to merge the new feature into the `main` branch. Once the pull request is approved, merge the new feature into the `main` branch.

## Branch naming convention

A git branch should start with a category. Pick one of these: feature, bugfix, hotfix, or test.

* `feature` is for adding, refactoring or removing a feature
* `bugfix` is for fixing a bug
* `hotfix` is for changing code with a temporary solution and/or without following the usual process (usually because of an emergency)
* `test` is for experimenting outside of an issue/ticket

See this [link](https://dev.to/couchcamote/git-branching-name-convention-cch) for some great description of the naming convention.

## Commit message conventions

Please follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary) guidelines for commit messages.
Feel free to use gitmoji for commit messages, but insert them at the end of the problem description.
See this [link](https://gitmoji.dev/) for more information.

## Pull request conventions
    
When creating a pull request, make sure to follow these conventions: [link](https://github.blog/2015-01-21-how-to-write-the-perfect-pull-request/)

## Compiling the package

To compile the package, run the following command in the root directory:

```bash
python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
```

## Uploading the package to PyPi

To upload the package to PyPi, run the following command in the root directory:

```bash
twine upload dist/*
```

## Development tools we use

* `black linter` for python code formatting
* `numpy`-style docstrings for documentation
* `mkdocs` for documentation generation
* `pytest` for testing

Commit message:

feat: update project structure and documentation; add CHANGELOG, logo, and version bump to 0.24.6

README.md, after:

# cpm

![the toolbox logo](./docs/img/cpm-logo.png)

cpm is a fundamental package for Computational Psychiatry. It is designed to provide a set of tools for researchers and clinicians to analyze and model data in the field of Computational Psychiatry.

:warning: The package is under active development and is therefore currently in a beta version. :warning:

## Installation and Usage

To install the package, run the following command:

```bash
pip install cpm-toolbox
```

Once the package is installed, you can import it in your Python code:

```python
import cpm
```

## Install from GitHub for Nightly Builds

In order to install the package from GitHub, run the following command:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/DevComPsy/cpm.git
```

## Documentation

The documentation can be viewed here: [link](https://devcompsy.github.io/cpm/).

### Development of documentation

The documentation is written in docstrings and markdown files. The markdown files are located in the `docs` directory. The documentation is built using mkdocs.

### Vieweing developmental versions of the documentation

First, install all requirements:

```bash
pip install -r docs/requirements.txt
```

In the root directory, run the following commands:

```bash
mkdocs build
mkdocs serve
```

Then open a browser and go to <http://127.0.0.1:8000/>

Depending on the version you have, you might need to add Jupyter to PATH, see this [link](https://github.com/jupyter/nbconvert/issues/1773#issuecomment-1283852572) for more information.

### Building the documentation

To build the documentation, run the following command in the root directory:

```bash
mkdocs build
```

To deploy the documentation to GitHub pages, run the following command in the root directory:

```bash
mkdocs gh-deploy
```

# Development process

To work on the toolbox, create a new branch from the `main` branch. Then, create a pull request to merge the new feature into the `main` branch. Once the pull request is approved, merge the new feature into the `main` branch.

## Branch naming convention

A git branch should start with a category. Pick one of these: feature, bugfix, hotfix, or test.

* `feature` is for adding, refactoring or removing a feature
* `bugfix` is for fixing a bug
* `hotfix` is for changing code with a temporary solution and/or without following the usual process (usually because of an emergency)
* `test` is for experimenting outside of an issue/ticket

See this [link](https://dev.to/couchcamote/git-branching-name-convention-cch) for some great description of the naming convention.

## Commit message conventions

Please follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary) guidelines for commit messages.
Feel free to use gitmoji for commit messages, but insert them at the end of the problem description.
See this [link](https://gitmoji.dev/) for more information.

## Pull request conventions

When creating a pull request, make sure to follow these conventions: [link](https://github.blog/2015-01-21-how-to-write-the-perfect-pull-request/)

## Compiling the package

To compile the package, run the following command in the root directory:

```bash
python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
```

## Uploading the package to PyPi

To upload the package to PyPi, run the following command in the root directory:

```bash
twine upload dist/*
```

## Development tools we use

* `black linter` for python code formatting
* `numpy`-style docstrings for documentation
* `mkdocs` for documentation generation
* `pytest` for testing
