tutorials/getting-started/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

Welcome to the [Project Name] documentation! This guide will help you get started with [Project Name] and provide you with the necessary information to begin using it effectively.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following prerequisites installed:

* numpy>=1.26.0
* SciPy>=1.11.4

## Installation

To install [Project Name], follow these steps:

1. Step 1
2. Step 2
3. Step 3

## Usage

Once you have installed [Project Name], you can start using it by following these steps:

1. Step 1
2. Step 2
3. Step 3

## Configuration

To configure [Project Name], you may need to modify certain settings or provide additional configuration. Refer to the [Configuration Guide](configuration.md) for detailed instructions.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues while using [Project Name], refer to the [Troubleshooting Guide](troubleshooting.md) for solutions to common problems.

## Resources

For additional resources and support, check out the following:

- [Official Website](https://www.example.com)
- [Community Forum](https://forum.example.com)
- [FAQs](faqs.md)

We hope this guide helps you get started with [Project Name]. If you have any questions or need further assistance, feel free to reach out to our support team.

Happy coding!

Commit message:

Deployed b02edd5 with MkDocs version: 1.6.0

tutorials/getting-started/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

Welcome to the [Project Name] documentation! This guide will help you get started with [Project Name] and provide you with the necessary information to begin using it effectively.

## Prerequisites

There are no prerequisites that you need to install for `cpm`.
It is written completely in python, so most dependencies (other python packages) are installed alongside it if they are missing from your system.

Note that some tools, such as `scipy`, might require some C++ compilers that are not present on Windows by default. It is up to you to check dependencies specific to your setup! If you are still struggling, try the Discussion forum, see below.

## Dependencies

- numpy>=1.26.0  : Numerical functions
- SciPy>=1.11.4  : Scientific functions
- pandas>=2.1.4  : Data structures & analysis
- multiprocess>=0.70.16  : Multiprocessing
- numdifftools>=0.9.41  : Numerical differentiation
- pybads>=1.0.4  : Bayesian Adaptive Directed Search

## Installation

To install `cpm`, simply type:

```bash
pip install cpm
```

Note that this is not yet available!

## Unstable Version

To install the unstable version, use this command:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/DevComPsy/modelling-toolbox.git
```

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues while using `cpm`, refer to the [Troubleshooting Guide](troubleshooting.md) for way to get help or report issues.

## Resources

For additional resources and support, check out the following:

- [Official Website](https://www.example.com)
- [Community Forum](https://forum.example.com)

Happy coding!
